
CURRICULUM POLICY – Page 1
Reviewed and Approved: Board of Governors June 10, 2009
1    CURRICULUM PATTERN
Students are responsible for ensuring that all academic requirements of the diploma, certificate, 
or applied degree program in which they are registered are met.
1.1   Prerequisite Courses
Certain courses are pre­requisites for others and therefore, must be completed in a specific 
sequence. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that all pre­requisites have been 
successfully completed in order to progress into the next semester. 
Continuing Education students should check with the Program Co­ordinator for policies 
pertaining to Continuing Education.
1.2   Co requisite Courses
Certain courses or practical experiences must be taken at the same time. If the student fails a 
co requisite course the student may be required to repeat both courses and/or practical 
experience.
1.3   Fast Track Program
Students have an opportunity to complete their programs faster when: 
­  they have been granted Advanced Standing in a program, or 
­  the program is offered through the summer semester.
1.4   Program Cancellation or Changes
George Brown College regularly surveys employment opportunities and revises and updates its 
programs accordingly. If at any time it becomes clear to the College that employment prospects 
for any program are limited, or for any other compelling reason related to a College offering, the 
College reserves the right to: 
­  replace, update, defer, limit or cancel such program/course offerings 
­  revise or replace certain semester courses or sections thereof.
2    DIPLOMA, CERTIFICATE, AND DEGREE PROGRAMS
A diploma, certificate, or degree program is a prescribed sequence of semester courses that 
meets the requirements for an Ontario College certificate, diploma, or degree. These programs 
are developed and offered under the authority of one of the divisions/faculties/ programs of the 
College. 
Under the provisions of this policy, a comprehensive listing of all diplomas, certificates, and 
degrees issued by George Brown College is maintained. Where diplomas, certificates, and 
applied degrees can be earned sequentially, such sequences will be identified as part of that 
listing under the authority of this policy. 
George Brown College grants Ontario certificates and diplomas, advanced diplomas and 
graduate certificates in accordance with the Qualifications Framework developed by the Ontario 
Government and found at
http://www.tcu.gov.on.ca/pepg/programs/oqf/
George Brown College – Academic Policies and Guidelines 
CURRICULUM POLICY – Page 2
Reviewed and Approved: Board of Governors June 10, 2009
2.1   Collaborative Programs
Degree level programs may be collaborative programs with other universities where the degree 
is granted by the university. Students must meet all the requirements as determined by the 
degree granting institution. In a collaborative program students may receive diplomas from the 
college as part of the degree level studies. Students must meet all the requirements for the 
diploma.
2.2   Degree Completion and Articulation
The College has agreements with other postsecondary institutions in which graduates with an 
Ontario College credential may get credit towards a degree at their institution. Consult the 
transfer guide for information.
2.3   George Brown College Degrees
Under the authority of the Post Secondary Education Choice and Excellence Act 2000, the 
college may also grant a degree. Consent for offering the degree is given by Ministry of 
Training, Colleges, and Universities upon the recommendation of the Post Secondary Education 
Quality Assessment Board (PEQAB). All degree programs granted under this act will undergo a 
recertification process carried out by PEQAB five years from the date of consent. 
Current students and graduates may obtain credits in the degree programs.  Please refer to the 
advanced standing policy in the Admissions policy section. 
http://www.georgebrown.ca/policies/index.aspx#maincontent
3    DIPLOMA, CERTIFICATE, AND DEGREE COURSES
Diploma, certificate, and degree courses are those in which the primary emphasis is on material 
related directly and practically to the field of work for which the student is preparing. Successful 
acquisition of appropriate skills and satisfactory performance in field placements are the 
required ingredients for success in certain courses. For these, a satisfactory level must be 
achieved in both theory and field placement before a passing grade may be granted.
3.1   Duplicate Use of Credit and Course Equivalency
Where George Brown course credits (whether earned directly, granted as equivalent, or 
obtained through Advanced Standing) have been used toward the granting of a certificate or 
diploma, these courses may be used toward the granting of subsequent certificates or diplomas 
when: 
­  such a sequence of certificates/diplomas is approved by the College, 
­  a specific course is common to both certificates or diplomas, or 
­  a specific course required in the subsequent program is deemed to be the equivalent of a 
course completed in the first program. 
Duplicate use of credits may be denied by the receiving College official(s) where competence in 
the relevant course(s) cannot be clearly demonstrated or documented. 
Applying diploma level courses to a degree program will be determined on a case­by­case basis 
by the Faculty or the Institution granting the degree.
George Brown College – Academic Policies and Guidelines 
CURRICULUM POLICY – Page 3
Reviewed and Approved: Board of Governors June 10, 2009
4    RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
Faculty of George Brown College may recommend a student for a certificate or diploma or 
degree only after the student has earned a minimum of 25% of the credit for that certificate or 
diploma, over and above Advanced Standing and Prior Learning Assessment credits (as they 
are defined in the College grading and promotions policies) and under the authority of the 
recommending Faculty.
5    COURSE OUTLINES
Students registered in each course receive a copy of the course outline at the start of the 
course.
5.1   Annual Review
Course outlines are approved for one academic year by the relevant program and are reviewed 
annually.
5.2   Outline Components
Course outlines contain the following elements: 
­  Course name and code 
­  Credit hours 
­  Pre­requisites and co­requisites 
­  Effective date 
­  Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR) eligibility 
­  Equity Statement 
­  Accessibility Statement 
­  Outline of student responsibilities 
­  Course description 
­  Essential Employability Skills 
­  Course outcomes 
­  Delivery methods /learning activities 
­  List of textbooks and other teaching aids 
­  Testing policy 
­  Assignment policy 
­  Evaluation system 
­  Grading system in use by George Brown College 
­  College Policy on Plagiarism and Academic Dishonesty 
­  Topical outline 
Students may also be provided with an approved Section Addendum to the College Course 
Outline, which details the name of the faculty for the section, his/her office hours for student 
consultation, test and assignment schedules for the section, standards for projects and 
assignments, and any variation in the mode of instruction. 
Students are expected to be knowledgeable of the contents of the course outline and to discuss 
with the faculty any areas where clarification is required.
George Brown College – Academic Policies and Guidelines 
CURRICULUM POLICY – Page 4
Reviewed and Approved: Board of Governors June 10, 2009
6    PROGRAM ELECTIVES
Programs, both full time and part time, allow, as appropriate, the inclusion of course electives.
6.1   Program Electives
A course elective is defined as a course that does not form part of the base core academic 
requirements for a program but is, rather, a course of study selected by the student that: 
­  is of immediate interest to the student, and/or 
­  will enhance the student’s general body of discipline­specific knowledge but is beyond the 
base core academic requirements as specified for a program. 
The inclusion of course electives allows students the opportunity to "stylize" their college 
program to more readily meet their immediate, personal needs. 
­  Students will be advised of the number of program electives they are required to complete 
and of the choices available to them, space permitting.
6.2   Selecting Electives
As part of the registration procedure, the Registrar will ensure that all new students to the 
College: 
­  are advised of the procedures with respect to electives selection, and 
­  are aware of the listing of electives that are available to them.
7    GENERAL EDUCATION / LIBERAL STUDIES
The purpose of General Education/Liberal Studies in the Ontario college system is to contribute to the 
development of citizens who are conscious of the diversity, complexity, and richness of the human 
experience; who are able to establish meaning through this consciousness; and, who, as a result, are 
able to contribute thoughtfully, creatively, and positively to the society in which they live and work. 
Consistent with the General Education Policy for Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology, graduates 
are engaged in learning that exposes them to at least one discipline outside their main field of study 
and increases their awareness of the society and culture in which they live and work. This will typically 
involve students taking courses designed discretely from vocational learning opportunities. This 
learning would normally be delivered using a combination of required and elective processes. 
­  General Education and Liberal Studies courses strengthen students’ generic skills, such as 
critical analysis, problem solving, and communication, in the context of an exploration of 
topics with broad­based personal and / or societal importance. 
These studies form part of the fabric of all curricula offered to students. 
The College is responsible for ensuring that, in accordance with prevailing ministerial policies 
and the needs of society and students, all College academic programming contains general 
education/liberal studies elements.
George Brown College – Academic Policies and Guidelines 
CURRICULUM POLICY – Page 5
Reviewed and Approved: Board of Governors June 10, 2009
7.1   General Education Course Requirements
Certificate programs do not necessarily require General Education courses; however those 
certificate programs that ladder to diploma programs usually require General Education 
courses, as may other certificate programs. A four­semester diploma program requires four 
general education courses, two of which may be mandatory (see 8.1), and a six­semester 
advanced diploma program also requires four general education courses, 
two of which may be mandatory.  Students in four or six semester programs must therefore be 
able to choose at least 2 
elective courses in order to fulfill their General Education requirement. 
To meet requirements for graduation, students are required to take at least one general 
education course from two of the following broad content areas: 
­  Art and Humanities, 
­  Social Sciences, and 
­  Science and Technology 
This requirement may be met by general education courses that are elective, mandatory, or a 
combination. 
These three areas are based on the five categories as set out by the Provincial Government: 
General Education courses contribute to the development of citizens who are conscious of the 
diversity, complexity and richness of the human experience and, the society in which they live 
and work. Specific themes for General Education courses to cover are:
? 
Arts in Society
 Courses that fall within this theme will normally be designated with an Arts and 
Humanities course code GHUM
? 
Civic Life
 Courses that fall within this theme will normally be designated with a Social Science 
course code GSSC
? 
Social and Cultural Understanding
 – Courses that fall within this theme will normally be 
designated with an Social Science course code GSSC
? 
Personal Understanding
 Courses that fall within this theme will normally be designated with a 
Social Science course code GSSC or an Arts and Humanities course code GHUM
? 
Science and Technology
 Courses that fall within this theme will normally be designated with a 
Science& Technology course code GSCI
.
7.2   Liberal Studies
Liberal Studies courses are degree level courses that develop: 
­  breadth and depth of understanding and knowledge of the social, historical, and cultural 
context in which students live and will work 
­  critical thinking ability and analytic skills, as well as writing and oral communication skills. 
The standards for Liberal Studies courses for degree programs will be set according to the 
Minster's consent for each degree. Each degree will meet the requirements for breadth as set 
out by the Post­Secondary Education Quality Assessment Board.
i.  At  least  20  per  cent  of  the  program  hours  in  degree­level  courses  are  outside  the 
professional or main field of study, of which some are free electives, to ensure
