
OVERVIEW: 


This document outlines the policy of VGC for ethical research involving 
human participants conducted under the auspices of the College.  It applies to all researchers 
who may wish to use VGC employees, students and/or College equipment 
and facilities for study and research purposes.
In addition to adherence to College policies, all research projects must follow ethical guidelines 
on research involving human participants as contained in the 

-Council Policy Statement: 
Ethical Conduct for Research Involving Humans

PHILOSOPHY & STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES:
The College endorses the ethical principles set out in the Tri
-Council Policy Statement2nd Edition (TCPS2)
These principles include:
• Respect for human dignity
• Concern for welfare
• Justice
Please refer to the TCPS2 (http://www.pre.ethics.gc.ca/eng/policy
-politique/initiatives/tcps2-eptc2/chapter1-chapitre1/#toc01-1b) for definitions of the core principals.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS: 
This policy is based on policy documents relating to ethical research created by Fanshawe College and Niagara College.  

DEFINITIONS:
Research
–An undertaking intended to extend knowledge through a disciplined inquiry or 
systematic investigation
2
.   
Participant
 – a person who, by virtue of his/her involvement in a data
-gathering sit
uation or 
activity, is a source of primary data or information.  Research participants bear the risks of the 
research in any study involving humans.
1
 This document was produced and is maintained by the three major research granting agencies in Canada as 
members of the Tri
-Council (Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council, the Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research and the Social Sci
ences and Humanities Research Council (December 2010).
2
 Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, and 
Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, Tri
-Council Policy Statement: Ethic
al Conduct for 
Research Involving Humans, December 2010.
Approved by Boar
d of Governors, December 12, 2012
Page 
2 of 
16 
Principal Researcher
 – a person designated as the primary representative of a research 
project by virtue o
f their involvement and scholarly merit.  The Principal Researcher bears 
responsibility for the research project and the reporting process.
Minimal Risk
 – occurs when potential participants can reasonably be expected to regard the 
probability and magnitud
e of possible harms implied by participation in the research to be no 
greater than those encountered by the participant in those aspects of his or her everyday life.
Capacity
 – 
the ability of prospective participants to give informed consent in accord wit
h their 
own fundamental values.  It involves the ability to understand information presented, appreciate 
the potential consequences of the decision, and provide free and informed consent. 
Legal Incompetence 
– 
a legal state defined by provincial law, that
 an individual is unable to 
consent for him or herself.
Authorized Third Party 
– 
a representative of an individual who is not competent to provide free 
and informed consent.  The authorized third party acts in the interest of that individual.
Free and Informed Consent –
the dialogue, information sharing, and general processes 
through which prospective participants choose to participate in research